# Lewis_Tyler_ART2210

[test link](https://talewis98.github.io/Lewis_Tyler_ART2210/testCoding/index.html)



For my first project I've decided to base my inspiration and style on Henri Matisse and his form of abstraction. For those of you who may not know, French artist Henri Matisse was considered one of the greatest colorst of the 20th century and a revolutionary artist who helped define modern art as we now know it. Matisse was also known as a Post-Impressionist, and he first achieved popularity his as the leader of the French movement Fauvism. Henri uses a very simple yet unique drawing style that I can personally associate with. I decided to use only lines and circles to execute my self portrait. I also followed up with the photo I selected and kept the same black and white concept throughout my project. I was also influenced by the minimalism movement which is categorized as style or technique, like in music, literature, or design, that is characterized by extreme spareness and simplicity. Minimalism is also basically abstract art consisting primarily of simple geometric forms executed in an impersonal style. The lack of color was intentional considering the fact that I used one of henri matisse’s work as inspiration. His use of extreme thick, dark lines, in my opinion, is more than enough to make a bold statement that can catch the eye of any viewer. Any use of color, or any form of modification could even distract a viewer of the simplicity of the artwork. I decided to use really dense lines to make my composition pop and stand out against the white background. I've also managed to create a somewhat saddened expression on the face of my self-portrait to identify the hard struggles of creating my composition. This adds a deeper meaning to my project, in which viewers can have the freedom to explore their own meaning.
